The second project in Applied Data Analysis and Machine Learing of Oskar Hafstad, Simon H. Hille & Semya A. Tønnessen. 

Due to extenuating circumstances we have an extended deadline until 23:59 23.12.2022. We apologize for the inconvinience. 

## Abstract 
In this project, our aim is to investigate classification and regression problems using a Feed-Forward Neural Network (FFNN). We will compare this method this to linear and logistic regression whilst studying two data sets: The Franke function and the Wisconsin Breast Cancer data set. 
The goal is to study which methods are best with regards to computational time and accuracy. 
Our results show that the neural networks code is better suited to the classification problem, achieving a higher accuracy than our logistic regression code and scikit learn's logistic regression function. Meanwhile, for the regression problem the logistic regression code performed slightly better. Various activation functions point towards the Sigmoid function producing the best results in this case, but the logistic regression code still performed better. 

## Dependencies 
Requires python3 
Check your version by running 
``` python3 --version ``` 

The project makes use of the following libraries: 
- `numpy`
- `matplotlib`
- `time`
- `seaborn`
- `time`
- `sklearn`

## Running the code 
Run all code from the folder `code`. 

The output is generated by running the following codes from your terminal: 
- `SGD_Franke.py`
- `SGD_wisconsin.py`
- `NN_wisconsin.py`
- `NN_Franke.py`

## Contents 
The folder `code` contains the functions for generating the plots, as well as classes for the FFNN and SGD. 

- `activation_functions.py`: Contains the activation functions for the FFNN 
- `FFNN.py`: Contains the class for the FFNN 
- `FrankeFunction.py`: Contains a function for the franke function with noise 
- `layer.py`: Contains a class which creates a hidden or output layer for the FFNN
- `SGD.py`: Contains the class for the GD and SGD

The remaining codes generate output for the `results` folder. 

## Tests 
The code was last tested with the operating system `Ubuntu 22.04 LTS`. 
